# Sliding Mirror


For use in alternating between two beams in a microscopy setup. A mirror is moved into position with high reposition accuracy. It has been tested on lasers with path lengths ~4.5m and found to allow better repeatability than for example a ThorLabs flip mirror. It also has the advangtage of optionally being automated.
A translation stage is used to provide the linear translation whilst movement is generated by a servo. A spring couples the servo arm to the stage, allowing the stage to be held tight against one end of its range to ensure the same position every time.

Could also be used to add/remove other components e.g. lenses, from optical path where high positional accuracy is needed.

The design comes in two sizes, based around the 13mm and 25mm translation stages available from ThorLabs. 25mm is easier to set-up and allows space for multiple optical components on the stage, whilst 13mm has a smaller footprint. If using the 13mm, then the 'edgeless' mirror design may be useful.

The designs assume mounting on an optical breadboard with 25mm spacing for M6 bolts.

## Bill of Materials

Part | Number | Product Code | Company | Cost (Aprox. GBP)
---|---|---|---|---
Translation Stage 25mm (or 13mm) | 1 | PT1B/M (MT1B/M) | ThorLabs | 161.42 (167.54)
Mirror mount   | 1   | application specific | -  |  -
M6 screw | 1 pack | SH6MS20 | ThorLabs | 6.66
Servo  | 1 | 781-3058 | RSonline | 11.06
Wires  |  1   | 214-0661 |  RS Online   | 14.29
Switch | 1 | 734-7154 | RS Online | 2.33
USB cable   | 1   | 121-6574   | RS Online  |  2.41
Arduino nano (or similar)  |  1  |  1050-1001-ND | Digi-Key  |  16.66
Spring | 1 pack |  2444377 | Farnell | 6.87
Machine screws | 1 pack | 560-596 | RS Online | 2.39

## Assembly
* Print the 3D part using at least 50% infill
* Remove three of the four servo arms and attach to the servo.
* Attach the servo to the base with M3 screws
* Remove the plug from the servo, then solder the wires to the Arduino Nano as shown in the wiring diagram (red to 5V*, Black to Ground, Yellow to any PWM pin)
    *The servo can draw 140mA, which is comfortably handled by the arduino and the USB supply from a computer

